malfunctions are uncommon however with
all mechanical devices like parachutes
they can and do occur firstly you need
to be able to recognize what a
malfunction looks like secondly after
recognizing the malfunction you need to
make a decision on the remedy and take
the appropriate action immediately
this may mean committing to emergency
procedures
at any stage in your skydiving whether
being a student or an experienced jumper
you need to make a decision you need to
firstly identify a good canopy now if
you're not happy with the canopy you
need to make a decision okay and you
need to make a decision of for 2,000
feet going through your meter procedures
isn't that hard at all it's just a
matter of you know pulling two handles
pulling in the right sequence and voila
we have a perfectly good functional
reserve our heads in an emergency
situation you may experience sensory
overload which can include tunnel vision
and a distorted perception of time a
loss of height awareness a loss of
manual dexterity or a freeze response
like a deer in the headlights
the best way to prepare yourself is to
overlearn your decision-making process
and your emergency procedures drill
visualize repeat if we're you know very
good at practicing those procedures then
at all she'll be pretty automatic